few weeks ago coinbase launched Ace a
layer 2 blockchain built on top of
ethereum it is fast and is cheap which
means it could be the home for the next
generation of web3 apps but building a
web 3 app is hard you need to be an
expert at so many tools understand so
many Concepts just to start a prototype
this is where third web comes in
Building on Base is super easy with the
weapon gives you all the tools you need
to get started and build a great web
free app
in fact we use the web to build cat
attack the first game on base
[Music]
it's a fun little game with cats you
start level 1 with a small kitten you
evolve it to a grumpy cat and eventually
you get level 3 Ninja cap to attack
other players it's a very simple Loop
and we build this in only two days but
guess what
this game got a hundred thousand players
and the contract for the game got over a
million transaction it is the hottest
contract on base right now
and I'm gonna show you how to build your
own you could be the next big hit on
bass
so let's get started so the first thing
you want to do is if you haven't already
is install the coinbase wallet browser
extension so the first thing you might
want to do is get some test net money
here for example you can get some base
girly eth on the coinbase faucet website
and all you need is a coinbase wallet
browser extension just click here and
you'll get some base test net funds once
you have that jump over to
theweb.com
dashboard every web3 app starts the same
way you're going to need a contract and
third web has multiple ways to do this
you can write your own contract and
deploy it via the CLI or you can go to
the dashboard and pick one of the
already available contracts that are
available in this explore page for our
case we want to build a Edition drop
because we're going to drop a brand new
cat nfts to our players which is going
to unlock something in the game so I'm
going to pick addition drop here let's
go ahead and just deploy it so here when
I deploy it it's going to ask me for
basic information so cat attack has been
hugely popular and I want to add a
little extra functionality to it so what
we're going to build today is a new drop
that's going to give our players new
skins for this is their kitten their
Grumpy Cat and their ninja cat and
notice there's a bit of a theme they're
all kind of Engineers slash Builders
here I'm gonna make it so if you hold
this nft which I call the deaf cat
you're gonna unlock new skins in the cat
attack game so let me show you how to
build this really easy I'm ready to
deploy my Edition drop now Dev cat drop
let's put a little image for it we're
gonna use our cute like Dev cat icon
here and then from here all I have to do
is choose bass girly from the drop down
here if you don't have it configured
type base and select base and add it to
your networks here I already have it so
now I'm ready to add it to my dashboard
and so let's go ahead and deploy it it's
just asking me to confirm here on my
coinbase wallet it's going to be one
more signature so this doesn't cost
anything just to add it to my dashboard
so I can easily find it later and there
we go my contract was deployed here's my
contracts dashboard page so this is an
nft contract ERC 1155 and so it gives me
a nice nft tab where I can see all my
nfts and mint my nfts right from the
dashboard it's mint and ft here and this
is going to be just devcat I think I'm
going to call it and it's going to be
this
little visual here let's go and mint
this on our contracts so this process
called lazy minting because not actually
minting it to my address what I'm doing
is I'm preparing this nft to be claimed
by other people that's going to be the
players so this has uploaded all my
metadata to ipfs and now I'm ready to
actually call the contracts so let's
confirm that here's our Dev cat nft now
you can see that the supply is zero here
and that's because no one has claimed
any yet again we just prepare this nft
to be claimed one thing that you can do
is you can click on the nft and see some
details about it the important thing
that we're going to do here is we're
going to set our claim conditions
this can get really powerful you can
have multiple phases with different
rules here I'm going to call this a
public Dev drop and we can say when will
people be able to start minting how many
will you drop in this phase so I want to
make it so that not everybody can claim
we're going to make it a little limited
Supply so let's say 10 000 FTS is going
to be the maximum amount that people can
claim how much do you want to charge so
we can put a price here we're not going
to put any price and then who can claim
these nfts for our case we're gonna
leave it open but you can see here you
can create interesting mechanics here
for your community then how many nfts
per wallet can be claimed we're going to
say only one per wallet and that's it
I'm going to save my flame faces here
and this is going to do a another
transaction on my contract so all of
these rules that you see here are
actually encoded into my contracts so
nobody can bypass them
let's confirm that we're all ready to go
we don't want people to do it through
there we want to create our own
application where people can claim those
Dev cats so now we're ready to build our
app and we have all of the code here in
the dashboard to help us do that so
let's jump over to replit
if you look for third web
you'll have a bunch of templates that we
prepared and one of them is specific for
this Edition drop here I've spined up
our Edition drop template which already
comes with a react app that is going to
show my nft in a nice claim button for
people to claim so here's the app I just
started this Edition drop claim page
template on replit and I opened the main
file the first thing that you see here
is that you need to tell the app which
chain your drop is going to be on and of
course we're going to do our drop on
base so how do we do that here we
actually have a lot of different chains
for example you can just type
base girly as one of the chains and you
see it's in our third web dev chains
package so it's already all pre-packaged
up for you now that I've set my chain
here all I need to do is pass it to the
so web provider that's going to wrap our
app and make sure that we're always
connected to base all across our
application then from there I can go
into my actual app code here this is my
home page and you can see there's
another to-do here which is to put the
contract address which contract do we
want to display the drops from luckily
if we go back to our dashboard so I
clicked here to copy the address and
going back to my replic code here I'm
just going to paste the address here the
last thing you can change is which nft
do you want people to be able to claim
so again if we go back to our nft tab
here see that our token ID for our Dev
cat is tokenity zero it's the first one
so that's what we put up here and then
from here we kind of just followed What
the code tab in the dashboard tells us
to do we did use contracts to get an
instance of our contract in our app and
then use nft to get an nft and display
it and then there's all the things like
get the supply easy enough that you can
go ahead and start modifying this this
is just a great starting point so I
think we're ready to go let's let's run
this thing let's see what happens
so I'm just going to type yarn Dev which
opens up the webview right here in
riplet this is the mobile view we can
look at the the desktop view here this
is the basic claim functionality I see
my nft I see how many have been minted
so far you can select the quantity
although for us it's only maximum one
per wallet so this does nothing let's
try it out we can open this in the new
tab so here's the full app that we built
even the connect wallet functionality is
all one react component that we're able
to just slap on our application and it
handles everything for me so here I'm
gonna connect my coinbase wallets so
that's it now I'm connected so let's
Mentor first Dev cat nft on the fronted
that we build ourselves on replit in a
few minutes I'm gonna click mince
confirm the transaction on my coinbase
wallet
and there you go successfully minted nft
now I'm ready to building and making my
website my own and start building my Dev
cat on chain Community using those nfts
it's going to unlock new skins in the
cat attack game and that's it for me
thanks for listening go build cool web3
apps in just a few minutes we built the
foundation of the cat attack game now
you have all the tools you need to build
great web 3 applications and who knows
you could be the next big hit on bass
thank you